Hi guys.
So in this section we're going to review properties of capacitors.
I've got a figure here that shows you all kinds of various capacitors.
There are two terminal devices.
OK.
They come either a kind of cylindrical they could come kind of a disease flat little kind of pancake
things.
These ones over here are kind of some plates that you can rotate so you can kind of put the plates kind
of closer together or farther apart.
So there are variable capacitors the ones we're going to focus on mainly our parallel plate capacitor
is just like the parallel plates we previously saw.
So capacitors are simply devices that are used to store charge or to create an electric field.
Another way of saying that is by storing charge we're going to say we're going to store energy in the
field in the plates and then we can use that energy later on.
They're also used in filtering.
If you start looking at AC circuits capacitors can be used to filter signal.
OK we're going to keep it rather simple for this section so we're going to introduce capacitors.
There's some fundamental equation that relates the charge on the plates to the voltage between the plates
and then we're going to see what happens if you place a dielectric or like a piece of paper or glass
between the plates an insulator for example.
What does that change what properties.
Does it change.
OK.
So by the end of this you'll be able to answer a whole bunch of questions regarding capacitors namely
how much charge there is how much voltage how much energy is stored and what type of electric field
is produced.
OK.
All right.
So let's get started with the section.